[Music]
the
unprecedented impact we're having on the
planet
is not only putting the ecosystems we
rely on at risk
[Music]
scientists believe that our destructive
relationship with nature
is actually putting us at greater risk
of pandemic diseases
we've seen an increasing rate of
pandemic emergence
we found swine flu sars ebola
and we've actually looked back over
every emerging disease and said
where did it originate on the planet and
what are the things going on there
that could have caused it and we found
we're behind
every single pandemic and its human
impact
on the environment that drives emerging
diseases
animals have lots of different viruses
that circulate inside their bodies
just like we do and so one of the most
obvious ways that we're making
it more likely that a virus would jump
is that we're
having lots of contacts with animals
[Music]
the wildlife trade is at unprecedented
levels
we have huge markets with
tens of thousands of live animals
shedding their viruses through feces and
urine
being killed in front of you
these are incredible places for viruses
to spread
and we're connected to that trade
through things like the fashion industry
we've seen this
huge increase in the use of fur trims
for winter jackets
and that means hundreds of thousands of
animals are bred in
fur farms you have large densities of
animals put in a situation with a lot of
people
to make things worse those animals are
very stressed
and we know that animals that are
stressed shed viruses at higher
rates
[Music]
we are encroaching further and further
every day into wildlife habitat
31 of all emerging diseases
have originated through the process of
landi's change
forests around the world where there's a
lot of biodiversity
have thousands of viruses that we've
never come into contact with yet
the minute we build a road in there we
start getting exposed
the first people into those logging
camps go out and hunt bushmeat
and pick up the viruses that's how hiv
emerged
then we bring our livestock in viruses
move from wildlife into livestock into
people
at every step of the process we're
bringing people
closer in contact with wildlife and
their viruses
it's easy to imagine that we're so far
away from these diseases
origins that it's nothing to do with us
but
we drive it actually our consumption of
beef drives this
our consumption of poultry and the
products that are used in poultry
drives this we've been saying for
20 plus years that this exploitation of
our environment is driving pandemics
but what we didn't think was it was
going to happen so quickly and so
devastatingly
[Music]
it was figured out quickly that it was a
coronavirus those are known to reside in
various kinds of animals and so people
started looking for the animal from
which that coronavirus
would have jumped into people we found
the closest relative
to the virus in bats in
rural south china in yunnan province
it's really well known for its
biodiversity of plants and of animals
including bats and they live in these
incredibly complex colonies
one part of the colony is a nursery
where all the kids live
and the parents fly out every night to
get food but
yunnan has been under incredible change
for the past few decades
high-speed rail links have gone in there
roads have been built into remote areas
and so we think kobe 19 maybe you've
started there
and either somebody got infected and
traveled to wohan themselves
or sent animals that they were shipping
into wildlife trade into those wet
markets
and then the virus exploded from there
it's my view
that it's our relationship with nature
and the way we interact with it
that drove the emergence of covid we've
been
changing biodiversity in really critical
ways that made this more likely to
happen
if we continue on our current pathway
then what we've
experienced this year might not be a
one-off
event we estimate there are going to be
five new
emerging diseases affecting people every
year
we cannot live with that and the rate at
which they're increasing
and crashing our economies if we have
one of these every decade
we cannot persist with that level
[Music]
you